This is what the buildup is to [music] a
World Cup. It's all about the problems.
Then once it starts, it focuses on the
football. It'll hopefully be eventful
and entertaining and live up to
expectations. Is it just going to be
purely corporate? Are we pricing out
real supporters?
>> Gary Lker, podcaster and media boss.
Have you got a guarantee from Netflix
that if you want to criticize President
Trump on air on Netflix through [music]
the podcast, that's okay with them?
>> I've not asked them that question. We're
doing a show every single day, so there
will be some days where we might need
something to talk about, but I'm hoping
we don't have to, but I [music] fear we
might have to.
>> From Bloomberg Weekend, this is the
Michelle Hussein Show.
[music]
I'm going to say right at the outset of
this episode that when you hear the word
football, which you will a lot, I don't
mean American football, but what you
might know as soccer. I'm afraid I have
to stick to football because that's the
way it is in my DNA. And that's also the
case for my guest Gary Lker, who was a
top goalcorer for England before he
moved from competitive sport into sports
broadcasting. He had a long career with
the BBC, ending in a rather public
falling out, which you'll hear us
discuss, but now his podcast, The Rest
is Football, is on Netflix.
>> Like the Euros a couple of years ago,
we're going to be doing daily shows
throughout the tournament. So, we wanted
him to take us into the atmosphere of a
big moment like this, a tournament
hosted by the US, Canada, and Mexico.
The organizers giving President Trump a
peace prize, and the commercialization
of the game, whether at the club level
in England or at the World Cup. By the
way, Gary Lker is more podcast boss than
mere podcaster because his company
goalhanger is right at the forefront of
the audio industry. So that comes up
too. We grabbed some time in his diary
before he headed off to New York. And
when he came into the studio, he spotted
something on this table. A book from
2010, a World Cup diary of his. Except
this is what happened.
Actually, me.
>> Seriously, you don't remember this?
>> No.
>> Oh, you better have a quick flick
through it yourself. I may be I may be
quoting bits of it, don't you?
>> My memory is terrible.
>> Your World Cup diary that year.
>> Really?
>> Yeah.
>> I did wonder why there was only one cuz
clearly you've been at plenty of World
Cups since then. So,
>> I have zero memory of that.
>> It's the first time I think I've ever
seen that. But
>> well, even when it came out, I know
>> I didn't know it even did come out. I
have no memory that I did that.
>> You say, well, you definitely got talked
into it. You say as much in the
introduction. So, here we are. Thanks to
all at Simon and Schuster, particularly
Ian Chapman, who took me out for lunch
and persuaded me that this was a good
idea.
>> Oh, wow.
>> An idea memory of the lunch forgotten.
>> That's what happens when you get older.
You forget everything.
>> So, no desire to add books to the media
empire.
>> No, it's not plan.
I'd love to start, Gary, by just getting
your expectations and thoughts on this
particular World Cup because you've seen
many. I think your first as a player was
1986.
>> You've done me your research, M. Thank
you.
>> Well, that much I should know for
starters, but you've seen them from
different angles. So, set the scene for
this one for us.
>> Well, football-wise, I think once it
gets underway, it'll hopefully be
eventful and and entertaining and live
up to expectations. I think it's more
off the field. There are concerns, but
um
that's been the case of every World Cup
that I think I've covered and played in.
Um it's hard to remember them that long
ago, but if even in ' 86 it was the
height of you know Mexican cartels and
all that. It was in Mexico. So 1990 we
had huge hooliganism problem and
Thatcher tried to I don't know pull us
out of tournaments at one point. So,
it's it's been ever thus in some ways.
You know, even in in recent times,
you've got Brazil 2014, huge
demonstrations on the streets saying
they shouldn't be spending this amount
of money on stadiums when they could be
helping the infrastructure of the
country. Um, then we got 2018 um just
four years before Russia invaded Crimea.
So, there's a lot of um hollow below
about that. Four years on to Qatar, we
were talking about LGBTQ rights. um you
know people dying in the building of the
stadiums. So I'm used to this. This is
what the buildup is to a World Cup. It's
all about the problems. Then once it
starts it focus on the on the football.
But you know there's a distinct
possibility at the moment that that the
host nation or one of the three host
nations the main host nation obviously
America could be at war with you know
one of the teams that are in the
tournament. Um
>> as things stand Iran are coming.
>> Yeah. Exactly. They are coming. So, you
know, we don't know from day to day
what's going to happen. So, yeah, this
is a little bit different. Um, but
hopefully a little bit like I remember
going in Russia and everything was
cleaned up before they came and a lot of
the Russian people saying this is the
best it's ever been here. It's amazing.
And then, um, so I'm hoping it'll be a
little bit like that and that, you know,
people like ICE are not taking fans off
the streets or
>> Well, that's a good it's a good
question, right? because there is that
sense that it's possible that these you
know international gatherings of fans to
watch this is a place that ICE could be.
>> Yeah. And some reports that you know
some players are not getting visas.
Hopefully it'll all
all be okay for the World Cup. So I'm
looking forward to actually the football
starting.
>> Yeah. But this is the atmosphere that
surrounds it. And there are other
elements for example Janney and Fantino
FIFA's close friendship with Donald
Trump. Do you think that has gone beyond
the norm when a country is about to host
the World Cup and the way that FIFA has
to interact with that host nation?
>> I find it very peculiar and very odd
actually. I think we call him Sicantino
now. I think this is new but um yeah I
think it the whole thing you know the
peace prize and all that sort of
nonsense and it's a concern you know and
other things like the you know the
pricing of the tickets is astronomical
compared with previous World Cups and
obviously you know FIFA must be involved
in the ticket pricing etc and they and
they're supposed to be a nonfor-profit
organiz you know they but they've got
billions in the bank and it's supposed
to go straight back into the sport
hopefully it does um but the ticket
pricing seems off the chart. Um, it's
going to be really, really expensive.
And one of the great joys of a World
Cup, you know, seeing all the Brazilian
fans in this and the Argentinian fans
and and the African fans and, you know,
people from Senagal and all and even
from Europe, you know, the Dutch all
turning up in, you know, in orange and
etc.
Are we going to see that? I don't know.
Is it just going to be purely corporate?
Are we pricing out real supporters? So
there are a lot of concerns going into
the World Cup. I re iterate what I said
before. This has often been the case and
once it once it gets going it's okay. So
fingers crossed.
>> Jan Infantino and Donald Trump the peace
prize which you mentioned. I want to
just like fill in the blanks a bit for
anyone who didn't follow that at the
time.
>> Well the the basics was that not long
after Donald Trump did not win the Nobel
Prize.
>> Yeah. It was announced that he was going
to win a FIFA Peace Prize.
>> I just don't understand why. I think it
was
partly ego.
>> Who's ego? [clears throat]
Yeah. And he wanted to do something and
you know, obviously he's he seems to be
cozying up very much to to to the
president of the United States. You
know, fair enough. But I thought that
was a step too far. I mean, who's going
to win in four years time? Netanyahu or
someone? Well, at the time he said that
Donald Trump deserved to to win this
prize, but there was clearly um a kind
of lack of transparency around what the
criteria were.
>> I'd love to know what the criteria was.
>> Is this are these questions that you can
ask on air on the podcast cuz the rest
of this football is going to be on
Netflix every day through the World Cup.
Do you envisionage talking about this
kind of thing?
>> I absolutely I would think so. Yeah. I
don't think there'll be any doubt that
we can talk about whatever we That's the
beauty of a podcast. You You're doing
one now.
>> Yes. You can go where you want.
>> But it's new, isn't it? Netflix putting
a podcast like yours on. And I just
wondered if there's going to be a
different vibe or even a different
understanding with them.
>> Netflix have said to us that they the
reason that they wanted our podcast to
give them a part of the World Cup that
they didn't have four years ago because
they like the way it was. So, we'll have
a lot of fun. We'll talk a lot about
football. Um, but we we naturally
discuss, you know, if if if ordinary
fans can't get in or if there's any
issues going on outside. Yeah, we're
doing a show every single day.
>> So, there will be some days where we
might need something to talk about, but
I'm hoping we don't have to, but I fear
we might have to. But have you got a
guarantee from Netflix that if you want
to criticize President Trump on air on
Netflix through the podcast that's okay
with them because the American media is
in a funny place overall on that topic?
>> Well, I' I've I've not asked them that
question. Um, but I suspect that it'll
be okay.
>> But this is the this is the backdrop to
the tournament.
>> Well, it is at the moment, but it was
the same I remember with Putin in in
2018. But once the tournament started,
there's so many. There's four football
matches a day. So hopefully there won't
be any issues to talk about, but if
there is, of course, we will.
>> And how do you feel about it being this
long stretch, longer tournament than
usual, bigger tournament than usual, the
fact that there's going to be 48 teams
this time? Because I've heard people say
infantino himself, that means it's more
inclusive. Teams are making their World
Cup debut and other people saying it's a
money grab. It just shouldn't be that
big.
>> Well, I think it's a bit of both. I
there is part of me that says there are
players and countries that will have an
opportunity to play in a World Cup which
they would never have been able to do.
That's a real positive.
The number of games that the players are
going to be asked to play um in tough
conditions um will be really difficult
and demanding players at some point
they've got to give somewhere with with
footballers. They're playing too many
games um and it's just they're filling
the calendar. There's no break at all.
Um, so in this World Cup, it's it's not
the fact that you got more teams
necessary, but the way they've
structured it is that we now have a
round of 32. So after the group stages
where pretty much it's pretty much
impossible for any really good team not
to get through to the knockout stage.
But I actually quite like an extra round
in that sense because there's more
drama, there's more jeopardy because the
group stages I think frankly they never
you you'll get the odd upset but
generally the best teams will go through
and I think that'll be the same. I think
a lot of the interest in the group
stages will be these the smaller nations
playing for the first time. Carissasau
and countries like that and Jordan. Um,
and there's there there are a lot of
others and I think that'll be special,
but I think the World Cup will really
start once you get to the last 32.
>> But also the logistics, the distances
involved and the borders because you are
talking about a World Cup over three
countries.
>> Yeah. Mexico, Canada.
>> Yeah, exactly. So, I'm not sure that's
happened before.
>> Um, we've had two. We had South Korea
and Japan shared it. And the next one
will be three as well, won't it?
Morocco, Spain, and Portugal. I mean,
it's predominantly in the States.
>> Certainly the finals in the States.
>> Yeah, there are a lot of way more
matches in the States, but America's a
very, very large country, but they've
had a World Cup there before, so the
travel is not too problematical, but um
yeah, logistically it will be difficult
um for both the teams, the players um
and people covering it as well.
>> Well, exactly. So for you, people in the
UK will know you for being the voice on
the BBC of football over such a long
time. You're now going to have this
global audience and you're going to, you
know, cover it for the duration wherever
the tournament goes. How different an
experience is it going to be for you?
It will be quite different. Although we
got I think we got a sort of smidging of
um of the experience in Berlin in the
Euros two years ago. But obviously this
is a much higherend production because
not only is it a podcast, it's also
going to be, you know, a TV show that
goes out sort of as live. We'll be
recording most of the shows in the
evening. So it's it's it's a lot of
work. Slightly daunting, but incredibly
exciting. There's a lot of planning.
We've been planning for a long time. And
we got loads of great guests which I
can't say yet but um you know our base
our studios right above Time Square. I'm
really I'm genuinely it's something
different for me as well. Obviously I've
covered Lord knows how many World Cups
for everyone since 94 and played in two
previous ones. So I've I've I've covered
them all. But this will be different.
Obviously we don't have the football.
We're not showing any the games. The BBC
and ITV have the rights to show the
matches. um you know such as the nature
of the World Cup and the way the rights
are sold. Um they're sold to individual
countries obviously all around the world
where they buy the rights. I I can't see
the World Cup who knows the way the
world is changing the way television is
changing whether one entity whether it
be a you know Netflix or Amazon or
whoever could buy the whole World Cup
rights to show everywhere. But it's it
it'll be lighthearted. It will be fun
and sometimes it'll be serious. Do
>> you know what it reminds me of hearing
you talk about it is when you did the
Olympics in 2012 because you and I were
both part of the BBC lineup, not not
together, different points in the day,
but I think that was a moment for you
where you were going beyond football for
the first time.
>> Yeah. I'd done golf and I also worked on
I worked on the Olympics in what was it
90 was the one in Atlanta? Was it 96?
And that was kind of my first role. And
that was an interesting experience
because I was I wasn't ready really, but
I I had I had the morning I had the
night shift anyway. No one's watching.
Um but then always good places good
places to try things. I was doing the
prime time show and it was and it was
>> I mean god I had to do some studying for
that. I mean because
>> do you remember the book they gave us?
They they gave us like we have one like
that for the World Cup every time.
>> So you'd seen it before?
>> But the football one I never really
read. Don't tell researchers that I know
football. I know all the players. I
watched million games a year. Um but
with with the Olympics, I had to do so
much research into not not necessarily
the people involved in them, but
actually how the sports worked
>> cuz you you can't go on a show like that
and not know your
>> stuff. But it was quite funny cuz I'd go
in early, we'd watch the the games all
day and we were doing really well,
really successful. And what happened is
because we I think the prime we did
seven o'clock till 10:00
um and we'd get guests in someone who
won the gold medal that day or you know
the early days it was someone had won a
medal then it became so successful it
was who won gold medals and um we were
in there one night and I had nine
separate interviews and you didn't
really know who we were going to get
until late on because some people had
pull out and cancel you somebody win a
gold medal and they rushed them into the
studio and I remember four lads were
brought in sat next to me and we got
about 30 seconds to go and um the floor
manager Chris I looked at them and and I
went who the [laughter] help help and he
and he went I don't know hang
[clears throat] on and as I was
introducing them they were telling me
their names in in their ear and it was
like [laughter]
[snorts]
what did they do they won they won a
gold medal
>> meanwhile they're completely starruck
cuz they're sitting on that
>> I'm not sure about looking at you. But
you know, I do I do remember for the
sake cuz I was on in the morning, so
very far away from prime time. But I
also remember at one point Taekwondo
coming on and and realizing there was a
moment where I had to talk over the live
pictures of Taekwondo and frantically
trying to look up the relevant
>> nothing in Taekwondo in that book. I can
tell you that now.
>> There was buried somewhere in that file.
But I also remember once the speaking of
the medal winners once um the brilliant
women rowers came on who had done all
the rowers did really well and um and I
was talking to Katherine Granger who's
now very senior sport. Well yeah they
were I mean they were very much in
demand but they came on
>> your your your interview is much better.
[laughter]
They they came on and at one point um I
very very foolishly said to Katherine
Granger that I had once rode at
university and when my husband heard me
say this he was like that was the most
embarrassing question you ever asked.
That is like saying to Gary Lica I once
played football and [laughter]
>> if you did
>> it's embarrassing and I thought yeah
>> it wasn't on the terms was it in one of
those little
>> it was oh nothing like that but it was a
very long time ago but it was a very
lame thing to bring up. though. But
yeah, medal winners. It's fantastic.
It's their moment.
>> Wasn't a pedlo.
>> It was not a pedlo. It was [laughter]
How dare you? It was not a pedal. Um but
I wasn't very good. Um as probably you
can expect. I do want to ask you about
the trend with funding and investment in
in English clubs over the last two
decades because you've seen this. Um
it's not just the individual wealthy
owners, it's now the sovereign wealth
funds and private equity and you know
asset managers of all kinds. What is the
impact do you think of this on the game?
>> It does concern me I think particularly
once we went down the line of sovereign
states you know but we that train has
left the station so um it's difficult.
Um it's an odd one. I mean most of our
football clubs are owned by Americans.
Premier League teams are owned by
Americans, you know, billionaires. Um,
[snorts] which is odd considering it's
not their sport. Really
>> becoming more their sport though. You
can see that in demand for it is growing
for tickets.
>> The interest is growing. And it's funny
though American friends going, "Do you
think we've got a good chance?" I'm
going, "Zero chance." [laughter] They
went, "What do you mean?" I said,
"You've got zero chance."
Sorry, any American listeners. Someone
has to break it to them.
>> Yeah. It's better to know cuz it's the
hope that destroys you. [laughter]
>> We've learned that. We've learned that
>> they're young in footballing terms.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> But there is an Americanism around the
World Cup, isn't there? That there's
dynamic pricing probably trying to make
the whole model more like American
football or American sports more widely.
>> That that's concerning. I think I mean I
mentioned it earlier but the ticket
price ticket pricing just if you're
pricing out real fans completely
um that's not going to be the same World
Cup. Let's see what transpires, but it's
it's a serious concern for me.
>> And going back to the um to the English
Premier League clubs, is the impact of
money of that kind and from those
quarters flowing in that players start
to be treated more as commodities or was
that always the case?
>> Well, it's better than it used to be.
the players actually have quite a bit of
control now on things. Um, and obviously
earn huge amounts, huge huge salaries.
But when I was playing, you know, you
would you basically a piece of meat. You
could be sold anywhere and they
basically threaten you that you never
you playing the reserves if you don't
go. And so they actually have more power
than um than they used to and obviously
a lot more money. Um, so you know, it's
probably gone a bit out of control in in
some ways, but it's football's big
business now. Huge business. I do wonder
if doing the World Cup on Netflix means
something to you personally because when
you finally left the BBC, did you think
that that kind of spotlight wouldn't be
on you anymore? I mean, you're doing the
rest is football and you're you're a
media boss now. But does it mean
something to you to be in demand for
this?
>> Well, I knew you'd be covering this
World Cup. um didn't know quite how um I
knew we'd do with the podcast. I think
our intention was to go out anyway. Um
so I knew I'd be covering it. Um but the
Netflix thing obviously is really
exciting which I wouldn't have been able
to do. Um I feel really chuffed actually
in in in a way. I mean obviously I was
with the BBC a long time and you know I
think it was like a long marriage in the
end. we just kind of got fed up of each
other. But so, so I had, you know, I
left and at at that point I was going to
host the World Cup for them. That was
going to be my kind of last terra. Um,
but I've ended up now doing it for
Netflix now being New York and the BBC I
inexplicably
based in Sulford for the World Cup,
which I don't understand. And if I'd
have been the main presenter, I would
have been banging doors down about that.
Greater Manchester essentially at the
BBC Sports base not sending the anchors
to the World Cup.
>> It's really odd. I mean the commentators
will be there and the co- commentators
obviously and you know they may if
England go really well they may go out
to the semi or the final or something I
suppose but I yeah I just I wouldn't I
wouldn't have been happy. So for me it's
it's turned out it's turned out really
well and I'm I'm still talking about
football.
>> So that long marriage with the BBC do
you regret the way it came to an end? I
I
regret. Yeah. I think it was
unfortunate, you know, just to explain
that there was an Instagram post that
was was talking about, you know, the
Israeli issues, Zionism, etc. And then I
missed it, but there was a little rat
emoji on the post that I put on my story
and no one noticed for about 17 hours
and then then somebody did and then it,
you know, I apologize because apparently
it has, you know, connotations around,
you know, Jewish tropes. Um, and that's
not something I would ever do and I
would never, you know, imagine for a
minute that any kind of human being
should be compared with a rat. So, it
was really unfortunate. I apologized. I
thought and then I apologized again. I
thought that should probably be enough.
But it wasn't. And in the end, I just
thought, "Oh, come on. Let's just end
this." You know, we're not getting on
very well at the moment. Um, I don't
think anybody anybody thought that I did
that deliberately. I mean, I am stupid,
but I'm not that stupid. So I don't
think anyone really did. So I regret the
manner of that. Um and it was, you know,
it's unfortunate and if it upset anyone,
I I remain sorry to this day. But um it
was certainly not deliberate.
>> And in that period, that time after the
first few hours, what what's happening?
Like there's a flurry of phone calls to
you, to your agent, like what what was
the experience actually like? I was
actually just going down to Bournemouth
to do an interview for the podcast and I
was in I was in the car. My son was
driving and the phone went and it was my
agent. He said, "We've just had a call
from the be and they said there's
there's you've posted something with um
a rat emoji that is supposedly a a a
Jewish trope." And I went, "No, I
haven't."
>> [clears throat]
>> He went, he says, "I've just looked.
There is one on there." I went,
"Really?" So then I checked and I just
went, "Oh."
So I thought, "Oh, this is not good."
Um, so I immediately deleted it and
issued an apology. And then it went
obviously up and above and it looked
like it was going to be all right for a
few days, but actually now maybe it
[snorts] was for the best. Not the way
it happened, but the freedom and it's
just like you can, you know, the weight
of the world's off your shoulders and
not treading on eggshells anymore when
you it's very difficult at the BBC the
last few years. The way the goalposts
have moved as well. I know in news and
current affairs you've always had that
thing where you've got to be, you know,
really careful and you've got to be
evenly balanced and but that never
applied to anyone outside news and
current affairs until they decided to to
move the gold post and I'd already been
on social media a few years and I have
you know I have views I have views um
and then suddenly they said well you
can't have any views anymore so and I
[snorts] just thought well well no
there's nothing in my contract about
that
>> and do you think that is because of the
power of the right leaning press? I
wonder if you'd had strong views for
Brexit or you know for strong policies
against immigration or that kind of
thing whether you think you would ever
have gotten to the same kind of
>> not a chance
>> cuz there was because there was a whole
lot of things before this before Gaza
that certain papers were having a going
forward.
>> Exactly. You know and basically there
have always been humanitarian issues. I
mean I gave my opinion on I just told
people I was voting not to leave to stay
um to remain that was and it nearly
forgot the word that we used now it's 10
years yeah so and that was it I never
told anyone else what to do but that was
probably the first time I'd ever aired
any kind of political views um and then
subsequently um it's always been
humanitarian issues um and I think
that's different to to politics or well
politics isn't everything so you know
when they say you know just stick to
your football and stay out of politics.
Well, there's a lot of politics in
football as well, so you can't can't
have it always. But yeah, it was
it was it was a difficult time. We kind
of grew a little bit apart. If I'd have
been even said anything sort of
Islamophobic or or seemingly that way, I
don't think it would be treated um in
the same way, particularly by by the
some of the newspapers who seem pretty
obsessed.
>> You see, in the time since, your media
business, Goalhanger, has got more and
more successful even in this even in
this year since you've fully left the
BBC. It had a record-breaking year last
year and amongst the stable our podcast
like the rest is politics and I just
wondered if there's anything that you
see slightly differently now like could
you imagine as goldh hanger presumably
continues to grow ever having rules for
your hosts that go anyway towards what
you had the BBC.
>> Oh no no we don't we we're not cursed
with that. U BBC are cursed. I mean it's
very very difficult because people will
always see bias but generally the bias
is their own. So you can't win. You know
I love the BBC. I think it's it's still
an amazing institution. It's got its
issues, got it problems and and some of
them are right at the top at the moment.
Um and if you know if you want
impartiality it has to start at the top
and it's not right there at the moment.
I don't believe that's my personal view.
But when we come to Goldhanger it's
completely up to them what they talk
about. We've got hosts that know their
stuff. Um, and sometimes they'll have
strong views. Um, and they don't have to
be um,
balanced all the time. So, I think it's
really important that it should be just
the truth. Obviously, you you you don't
want to put out there, you know, things
that lead people astray and you've got
to be kind of careful with that, but we
never ever tell them what to say or
there's no
>> Do you suggest how about doing such and
such period in history or person on
leading the rest is
>> politics? Oh, there's lots of
>> Because you're a media boss now.
>> Well, I am. Yeah, I know. But I don't
feel like one. [laughter]
Um, it's it's been a crazy ride. It
really has.
>> It is a form of power and you are a very
politically aware, astute and engaged
person. Do you relish having that power?
>> I don't I don't see it like that. I I I
relish what we're giving to people and
the amount of enjoyment that people are
getting from our podcast and I I I'd
find that really really inspiring.
>> It's interesting to think how almost
full circle it is. So goldh hanger
started in the kind of meat you thought
would be in sports documentaries and
then
>> then who knew that audio would have this
incredible growth but now all audio is
visualized.
>> It's going back again. It's kind of full
cycle in a way but still the majority of
our our listeners or well they are
listeners do just
>> members don't you now the old business
model is all about members.
>> Well partly cuz you you know you never
know with advertising and stuff. So
yeah, we've got a lot of um members
clubs and each most of the podcasts. Not
done one for football yet. I think we
hopefully launch that after the World
Cup possibly. We've had a bit on our
hands lately last few months, but
>> yeah, it's it's um yeah, business-wise
it's mad. I mean, it's incredibly
successful and you know, we just
>> we're just kind of creatives. We don't
really know what we're doing, but we've
bagged it. Well, you've kickstarted or
played a huge role in the growth of an
entire industry in which I'm hoping that
there's room for the younger newer
entrance. Not younger in age, newer
entrance.
>> You're definitely younger in age. You're
definitely No. Well, that's it. There's
plenty of room. It's not like you've got
a television schedule, is it? We got ITV
against BBC and you go, "Oh, there we up
against Strictly. We got no chance."
with the podcasting you just do it and
you know particularly from the audible
side of things um you just you can do it
on the dog walk or I do it when I'm
cooking and I'm all the time I have to I
have to keep up to date with all our
podcast
>> but one more question on this which is I
do wonder what if it ends up eating the
news business journalism what if already
loads of people will form their
worldview from the rest is politics and
the rest is history um and they'll be
they might well be turning straight to
opinion rather than getting their news
elsewhere.
>> It's the creator economy. What happens
if it destroys journalism in its
traditional sense?
>> I think that highly unlikely. I think
journalism will always be there. It
might move and slightly, but I I think
it's hard to imagine that. I mean,
there's so much news going on. I don't
think you can just
>> Yeah. Except it probably means that the
money is probably on your side rather
than not
>> putting money into news.
>> Not so much. I don't know. I mean,
television is changing. Obviously, it's
shifting a little bit more towards
streaming, but it's still, you know,
it's still alive. It's still live and
kicking and there's a lot of, you know,
people still listen to radio and and for
get their news in different ways. Um,
you know, there's still a large
percentage of people who have not
discovered podcasts yet either. So,
particularly the elderly um um like me,
[laughter] like me. I got my bus pass
now and everything. So, yeah. So, but I
you know, I got into it early thankfully
when I was in my mid-50s, not my mid60s.
>> I can't let you go without asking you
about England. England, not the country,
the team, the men's team, because this
year it's 60 years since at a senior
level the men first won
>> since they last won a major tournament.
And I'm just keen to understand from you
why you think that is like how can we
have this immense disconnect between
that length of time without a major
title and and a country where football
is so alive which has got one of the
most successful domestic leagues in the
world.
>> Well, there are a number of reasons. We
won a World Cup in ' 66 when it was in
our own country. It's the only time it's
been here and that does give you an
advantage. But since then, a lot of
reasons. Um, one, our development of
young players was was appalling up until
probably 15 years ago when it started to
change. Um, you know, it was all we used
to play on fulls size pitches. No one in
the rest of the world could understand
it. We used to play little kids of like
8 9 10 11 on full size pitches. Um, so
what you do then you get the kid who's
the biggest and strongest at the back
that could well it and we never really
learned to play. That has changed. So,
and that is the reason now we are
actually competitive in tournaments
these days cuz we are producing a lot
more talent. We have had spells where
we've produced talented players. Um, but
we've never been tactically clever
because we weren't brought up the right
way. In recent years, we've been
knocking on the door what we've done. We
got two finals, semi-final and
quarterfinal. Um, and we've been really,
really close, as close as you can get
with the penalty shootout. So you know
that is because we are producing better
players again now and we can compete but
it's worth pointing out it's very very
very difficult to win a world cup. There
are a lot of great football in nations
um and that you you end up having to
play. I mean the last World Cup you know
we I thought we we were the better team
against France but we lost you know I I
played in 1990 I thought we were the
better team in the semi-final and we
lost on penalties. So, it's it's tiny
margins, but if you keep banging on the
door like England are doing, and I'm not
overly confident for this particular
World Cup, but I fancies in the Euros in
two years time, okay, because it's in
the UK and Ireland, so they'll have half
a chance. But I but I do wonder whether
you think there is a a link to domestic
football because it is it the case that
the playing for your country isn't
regarded by the clubs as that important
and the players are not necessarily
there to train with the team and their
teammates to the extent they should be.
>> No, it's not that. It's not that. The
players absolutely have a massive desire
to play for their country. It's the
biggest honor you can get. They're
desperate to play. Do clubs like it? No.
But they don't like it in Italy either
in France or Spain or Argentina or
Brazil. You know, they, you know, it's
something that clubs have to do. They
have to let their players go for the
national team a few times a year. The
one thing that is hard for us is that
our league is incredibly competitive and
incredibly physical. Not as physical as
it used to be, but it's still very
physical. We play a lot of football and
we don't really help ourselves in terms
of World Cups etc. I know a lot of the
players from around the world are in our
league as well now but it is it is it is
tough for them going out. Um, but
they've got a bit of time and I think
the fact that England don't play until
about a week into the tournament is al
quite helpful cuz I think I I've spoken
to Thomas Tukul and he's he's going to
give them a you know a good break you a
week's holiday or so and I think that'll
recharge the batteries and you never
know just going to want I just want it
to happen before I die. [laughter]
>> Yeah. I mean because your own
experiences at the World Cup, they were
life-changing, right? In 1986 as a goal
scorer and then in 1990 you you wouldn't
have had your broadcasting career
without being so prominent and so loved
as a player for England.
>> No, I you know you get those letters and
I'm sure you get them the same or used
to be letters now it's messages etc.
just saying how do I get into
broadcasting? How do I get and I I would
say the same thing. And I said, you
know, try local radio, try hospital
radio, newspapers, local newspapers, or
score loads of goals for England.
[laughter]
I took the latter route, but it's not
quite not so easy. But it is true. Now,
none of that would have happened. I
mean, 96, sorry, 86. God, it's 40 years
ago, not 30. 86 changed everything for
me. I mean, I'd gone five, six games
without a goal. Um, we lost our opening
game against Portugal. We drew against
Morocco. we needed to win and one game
changed my life really. Poland hattrick
after that two more against Paraguay and
the goal no one remembers in the hand of
God game and but I won a golden boot and
I moved to Barcelona off the back.
Everything's suddenly different and
that's what World Cups can do.
>> Wonder who will be the Gary Lker of this
of this World Cup on the on the field.
There'll be someone who might well have
a similar life-changing experience
>> is English. [laughter]
And you you've got a new you've got a
new groove with
>> a new groove.
>> Yeah. With that I I mean a new
professional [laughter]
professional groove as in with um with
the rest is football going to Netflix.
So do you think you've got a lot more
World Cups in you?
>> I just hope I've got a few more years in
take what do they say? I use a football
cliche. We'll take one World Cup at a
time. Um I I hope so. I just want to see
us win more. that that's, you know,
that's always what I've wanted to wanted
to see. I I was 5 years old when we went
in ' 66 and and I have no memory of
that. Zero memory. So, um that would be
that would be nice. But I hopefully
there's a bit of life in the old dog
yet.
>> So, I think is that will you sort of
keep keeping the rest of football game
until that? I can see you like in 20
years time still doing it in case
England win and you can be there to talk
about it.
20 years time we maybe who knows I don't
know maybe Alan and Michael will have
something to say about that
>> Gary Lica thank you so much
>> my pleasure
>> we did turn to FIFA afterwards and asked
if they'd like to comment on Gary saying
Janney Infantino is cozying up to Donald
Trump they declined but they directed us
to an interview where Infantino
described what he called his friendship
with the president. And on World Cup
ticket prices, FIFA say they are focused
on ensuring fair Access.
>> [music]